---
title: "Definition of Chow Ring"
categories: 
    - Note
tags: 
    - Algebraic Geometry
    - 3264
---

This post is a reading note of *3264 & All That Intersection Theory in Algebraic Geometry*.

<!-- more -->

# Bézout’s theorem

## Original Theorem

If plane cuves $$A,B \subset \mathbb{P}^2$$ intersect transversely, then they intersect in $$(\operatorname{deg}A)(\operatorname{deg}B) $$ points.

## Special Case

If $$A$$ is a line, this is special case of Gauss' fundamental theorem of algebra, that is, a polonomial $$f(x)$$ in one complex variable has $$\operatorname{deg}f $$ roots.

## Extension

If $$A,B \subset X $$ are subvarieties of a smooth variety $$X $$ and $$\operatorname{codim}(A \cap  B) = \operatorname{codim}A + \operatorname{codim}B $$, then we can associate to each irreducible component $$C_i$$ of $$A \cap B$$ a positive integer $$m_{C_i}(A,B) $$ in such a way that:

$$
[A][B]=\sum m_{C_i}(A,B) \cdot [C_i].
$$

The integer $$m_{C_i}(A,B) $$ is called the *intersection multiplicity* of $$A $$ and $$B $$ along $$C_i $$. The definition of $$[A]$$ will be given below.

This theorem is our goal. The following definitions will be used when building this theorem.

# Background Definitons

Let $$X$$ be any algebraic variety.

## The group of cycles on $$X $$

The free abelian group generated by the set of subvatieties (reduced irreducible subschemes) of $$X $$, denoted $$Z(X)$$.

It follows that $$Z(X)=Z(X_{\operatorname{red}})$$.

## k-cycles

They are formal linear combinations of subvarieties of dimension $$k$$.

## Effective Cycle
A cycle $$Z = \sum n_i Y_i$$, where $$ Y_i $$ are subvarieties is effective if the coefficients $$n_i $$ are all nonnegative.

## Divisor
An $$(n-1)$$-cycl1e on a pure $$n$$-dimensional scheme.

## A special effective cycle

An effective cycle $$\langle Y \rangle$$ we associate to any closed subscheme $$Y \subset X $$. If $$Y \subset X $$ is a subscheme, and $$Y_1,\dots,Y_s $$ are the irreducible components of the reduced scheme $$ Y_{\operatorname{red}} $$, then each local ring $$ \mathcal{O}_{Y,Y_i}$$ has a finite composition series. We define the cycle $$ \langle Y \rangle $$ to be the formal combination $$ \sum l_iY_i$$, where $$l_i $$ is the length of corresponding component, called the multiplicity of the scheme $$ Y$$ along the irreducible compnent $$ Y_i$$, and written $$ \operatorname{mult}_{Y_i}(Y) $$. 

# Chow Ring

## Rational Equivalence

Let $$\operatorname{Rat}(X) \subset Z(X) $$ be the subgroup generated by differences of the form:

$$
    \langle \Phi \cap ({t_0} \times X)\rangle - \langle \Phi \cap ({t_1}\times X) \rangle
$$

where $$ t_0, t_1 \in \mathbb{P}^1 $$ and $$ \Phi $$ is a subvariety of $$ \mathbb{P}^1 \times X $$ not contained in any fiber $${t} \times X $$. Two cycles are *rationally equivalent* if their difference is in $$ \operatorname{Rat}(X)$$, and two subchemes are rationally equivalent if their associated cycles are rationally equivalent.

## Chow Group

The Chow group of $$X$$ is the group of cycles of $$ X$$ modulo *rational equivalence*:

$$
    A(X) = Z(X)/\operatorname{Rat}(X)
$$

If $$Y\in Z(X) $$ os a cycle, we write $$[Y] \in A(X) $$ for its equivalence class; if $$Y \subset X $$ is a subscheme, we denote the class of the cycle $$\langle Y \rangle $$ associated to $$ Y$$ by $$ [Y]$$, too.

If $$X $$ is a scheme then $$ A(X)$$ is graded by dimension.

Under good circumstances, the rational equivalence class of the intersection of two subvarieties $$A, B$$ depends only on the rational equivalence classes of $$A $$ and $$ B$$, and this gives a product structure on the Chow groups of a smooth variety.

## Transversality

Subvarieties $$ A,B $$ of a variety $$ X$$ intersect *transversely* at a point $$ p $$ if $$ A,B$$ and $$ X$$ are all smooth at $$ p$$ and the tangent spaces to $$A $$ and $$ B$$ at $$ p$$ together span the tangent space to $$ X$$:

$$ 
    T_p A + T_p B = T_p X
$$

or quivalently

$$ 
    \operatorname{codim}(T_p A \cap T_p B) = 
    \operatorname{codim}T_p A+\operatorname{codim}T_p B
$$

Subvarieties $$A,B \subset X $$ are *generically transverse*, or intersect *generically transversely* if they meet transversely at a general point of each component $$ C$$ of $$A \cap B $$.

The set of points of $$ A \cap B$$ at which $$A,B $$ are transverse is open. This terminology is extended to cycles: two cycles $$ A = \sum n_i A_i$$ and $$B=\sum m_jB_j $$ are generically transverse if each $$A_i$$ is generically transverse to each $$ B_j$$.

Subvarieties $$ A_i \subset X$$ intersect transversely at a smooth point $$ p\in X$$ if $$ p$$ is a smooth point on each $$ A_i$$ and $$ \operatorname{codim}(\bigcap T_p A_i) = \sum \operatorname{codim} T_p A_i $$. They intersect generically transversely if there is a dense set of points in the intersection at which they are transverse.

### A Little Example

If $$ \operatorname{dim} A + \operatorname{dim} B = \operatorname{dim}X$$, then $$ A$$ and $$ B$$ are generically transverse if and only if they are transverse everywhere, i.e. their intersection consists of finitely many points, and they intersect transversely at each of them.

If $$ \operatorname{dim} A + \operatorname{dim} B > \operatorname{dim}X$$ then $$ A$$ and $$ B$$ are generically transverse if and only if they are disjoint.

## Chow Ring

If $$ X$$ is a smooth quyasi-projective variety, then there is a unique product structure on $$ A(X)$$ satisfying the condition:

If two subvarieties $$ A,B$$ of $$ X$$ are generically transverse, then

$$ 
    [A][B] = [A \cap B]
$$

This structure makes

$$ 
A(X) = \bigoplus^{\operatorname{dim}X}_{c=0} A^c(X)
$$

into an associative, commutative ring, graded by condimension, called the **Chow ring** of $$ X$$.