---
title: "Reading Hestenes: 2D Space Groups"
categories: Note
tags: [Geometric Algebra, Crystal Geometry, Space Group]
date: 2020-02-17
---

There are 13 symmorphic space groups in 2D, among which all translations are generated by primitive generators, so only point group generators will be discussed in this note. The 4 remaining nonsymmorphic space groups are constructed by replacing reflections by glide reflections.

<!--more-->

Since we are going to deal with translation, we need to introduce the standard classification of crystal lattices first.

## Bravais Lattices

The Bravais lattice are the distinct lattice types which when repeated can fill the whole space(plane). They can be generated by three(two) unit vectors. Each lattice point can be represented as linear combination of unit vectors with integer scalars.

There are 5 distinct Bravais lattices in 2D, and 14 in 3D. A quick introduction of Bravais lattices can be read [here](https://ecee.colorado.edu/~bart/book/bravais.htm)

In 2D, the unit cell of a *primitive*, or *p*, lattice contains a single lattice point (at the cell vertex). The unit cell of a *centered*, or *c*, lattice contains two lattice points (not necessarily at the cell vertex). 

In fact, there are two centered lattices in 2D, one of which contains no lattice point at the cell vertex, and we will denoted it as *h*. 

## Space Groups

Each space group symbol designates a lattice type, [point group](https://peance.github.io/note/2020/02/12/Geom-Alg-01/) and *joining constraints*. We will focus on joining constraints here. Space group without a joining constraint are called *symmorphic*. 

### Symmorphic Space Groups

TODO: Why inversion change sort and why ab can represent 

