---
title: "Reading Hestenes: Point Groups"
categories: Note
tags: [Geometric Algebra, Crystal Geometry, Point Group]
date: 2020-02-12
---
Hestenes use versors to describe transformations, then developed a new way to designate point groups. 

<!-- more -->
## Versor and Operation

### A single vector
Given a single vector $$a$$, we can decompose an arbitrary vector along the given vector:
\$$
x=x(aa^-1)=(x\cdot a)a^{-1}+(x\wedge a)a^{-1}=x_{\perp}+x_{\parallel}
$$

Hence:
\$$
\underline{a}(x) = -a^{-1}xa =(x\wedge a - x\cdot a)a^{-1} = x_{\parallel} - x_{\perp}
$$

can represent a reflection.

<!-- more --> 

### Product of two vectors

Let $$\underline{R}(x) =(ab)^{-1}x(ab) $$. This operation is a combination of two reflections. Decompose $$x$$ along an axis perpendicular to both $$a$$ and $$b$$, then it's easy to see that $$x_{\perp}$$ doesn't change; what remains is combination of reflections in a plane, which is plain.

The product $$ab$$ of two vectors generates a rotationn through twice the angle between $$a$$ and $$b$$.

Notice that $$(ba)^{-1}x(ba) = -\underline{R} $$.

## Versor Group

The vesor group would be finite if there is a smallest integer $$p$$ for which $$\underline{R}^p =1 $$. If we adopt $$a$$ and $$b$$ as generators of a vesor group, the vesor group will be extended to include reflections.

We will use number $$p$$ to denote the point group, and $$\bar{p}$$ to designate its rotation subgroup. The symbol $$p=1$$ designates the case when there is only one generator (two generators coincide).

### 2-Dim Point Group

Any symmetry of a plane must be limited to operations which leaves the plane unmoved. The only point group operations are therefore can be represented by an n-fold rotation and a reflection.

There are 10 possible point groups in total: 5 including proper rotation only, plus 5 with reflection. In geometric symbol, they are $$1,2,3,4,6,\bar{1},\bar{2},\bar{3},\bar{4},\bar{6}$$. The restriction of angle and the international symbols are discussed in [this post](https://peance.github.io/note/2020/02/07/crystal-geom-01/).

Notice that, although both systems use numbers (the angle of rotation) to denote the rotation itself, international symbol focus on the vectors defining the angle. On the other hand, traditional system based on rotation while geometric algebra focus on reflection.

This might help you understand the difference between two systems.

### 3-Dim Point Group

We need three generators to describe a 3D point group. We have the following restriction: 
 \$$ 
 (ab)^p \doteq (bc)^q \doteq (ca)^r \doteq -1 
 $$

and:
\$$
(ab)(bc)=|b|^2ac \doteq ac 
$$

Now consider the spherical triangle generated, its area is given by [spherical excess formula](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/SphericalExcess.html):
\$$ \Delta = \pi (\frac1p + \frac1q + \frac1r -1) $$

Hence $$\frac1p + \frac1q + \frac1r > 1$$. Let $$p>q>r$$, we have $$r\leq 2$$. When $$r=1$$, $$c $$ and $$a$$ coincide, so $$r$$ must equal to two.

#### How to Read the Geometric Symbols

| Symbol | Generators | Comments |
|:--:|:--:|--|
|$$p(=1) $$|$$a $$| Isometry |
|$$p(\neq 1) $$|$$a,b $$|Including Reflection|
|$$\bar{p} $$|$$ab $$|Rotations Only|
|$$pq $$|$$a,b,c $$| $$-$$|
|$$\bar{p}q $$|$$ab,c $$| $$-$$|
|$$p\bar{q} $$|$$a,bc $$|$$-$$ |
|$$\bar{p}\bar{q} $$|$$ab,bc $$|Proper Rotations Only|
|$$\overline{pq} $$|$$abc $$|Consider it as the combination of a rotation and a reflection.| 
